Customer Profile System (role_id: 2)
Profile Attributes
Our customer profile is built by aggregating data from several core modules:

From User:
Attributes: id, first_name, last_name, email, phone, country, status, avatar_url, created_at, updated_at, deleted_at, role_id (2), google_location, detected_location, manual_location, location_source, location_updated_at, is_verified, last_login_at.

From Customer:
Attributes: user_id, phone_number, address, preferences, payment_methods, saved_addresses, default_address_id.

From Device:
Attributes: device_id, device_type, platform, last_used_at.

From Address:
Mapping: default_address_id links to formattedAddress, latitude, longitude.

Features
1. Customer Authentication & Registration
Signup (authController.js)

Register Account:
Enable customers to create accounts securely using email, phone number, or social logins (Google, Facebook, Apple).
Extras: Integrate CAPTCHA to prevent bot activity, dispatch a welcome email with setup instructions, and implement referral bonus logic for clan expansion.

Login

Authenticate Credentials:
Validate email/phone and password, issue JWT tokens for secure sessions (with expiration), and consider multi-factor authentication (MFA) or biometric login options for enhanced security.

Logout

End Session:
Invalidate JWT tokens to terminate sessions and support logouts from all devices, optionally tracking session history for auditing.

Verify Email

Confirm Ownership:
Send a unique verification link to ensure email ownership before unlocking full profile features, optionally with a countdown timer for urgency.

2. Profile Management (profileController.js)
Update Profile

Edit Profile Data:
Allow modifications to personal details (name, phone, address) and update saved_addresses using our Address module.
Extras: Support avatar uploads via ImageHandler and re-verification via NotificationService when critical changes (like email/phone) occur.

Get Profile

Retrieve Data:
Aggregate customer data along with associated orders, bookings, notifications (via notificationController.getNotifications), and linked devices (through DeviceService).

Change Password

Secure Password Updates:
Enforce strong password policies, validate new passwords, and send confirmation emails after changes. Optionally, display a password strength meter for guidance.

Manage Payments

Payment Methods Administration:
Provide endpoints to add, edit, or remove payment_methods, ensuring data is encrypted and secure.
Extras: Allow setting a default payment method for streamlined checkouts.

Modules
Shopping Cart
Item Management:

Add Item: Integrate with MenuInventory and ProductModifier to ensure item availability and pricing accuracy.
Extras: Consider a “Quick Add” for frequently purchased items.

Remove/Update Items: Allow removal with confirmation prompts (and “Save for Later” functionality), and update quantities with automatic recalculations (including discounts via ProductDiscount).

View Cart: Present all items with detailed cost breakdowns (taxes, fees, etc.) and optionally a field for coupon codes.

Order Management
Checkout

Finalize Purchase:
Process checkout using the Order module, support multiple payment options, and generate detailed invoices.
Extras: Enable a "Guest Checkout" feature if needed.

Order Details & Status Tracking

Get Order Details:
Retrieve comprehensive order data including status, items, and real-time tracking updates via NotificationService and RouteOptimization.

Past Orders

Order History:
Present historical orders with dates, items, and totals, while enabling one-click reordering and a “Reorder Favorites” option.

Subscription Management
Manage Subscriptions

Subscription Setup:
Create and manage recurring services with flexible scheduling (daily, weekly, monthly) through our Subscription module.
Extras: Offer discounts for long-term subscriptions.

Update & Cancel

Modify/Terminate Subscriptions:
Provide endpoints to update subscription details (with change notifications) and cancel subscriptions, gathering feedback and optionally offering cancellation incentives.

Quick Link Services
In-App Assistance

Check-In & Service Requests:
Use the Booking module for check-ins and to request additional services (like emergency help) via NotificationService.

Call Staff/Request Bill:
Enable direct requests for assistance or bill payment, with options like “Split Bill” or “Priority Request.”

Table Booking Management
Reserve Tables

Table Reservation:
Leverage the Booking and TableLayoutSection modules to check real-time availability and confirm reservations via NotificationService.

Manage Bookings

Approve/Deny & Check-In:
Allow merchants to manage table bookings, including approvals, check-ins, and cancellations (with potential last-minute cancellation fees).

In-Dining Order Management
Order Handling

Add & Update In-Dining Items:
Facilitate additional dish orders during dining using OrderItems and ProductModifier, with options for special requests.

Finalize & Payment

Close Order & Payment Processing:
Finalize the in-dining order bill, trigger payment processing via the Payment module, and optionally incorporate loyalty rewards.

Status Tracking

Real-Time Updates:
Provide live updates on order preparation status and estimated times (Live ETA).

Review Management
Feedback System

Create/Edit Reviews:
Allow customers to post and modify reviews, incorporating multimedia (via Photo Upload feature) if desired.

Delete & Share

Manage Reviews:
Offer endpoints to delete reviews (with reasons for deletion) and share them on social platforms, possibly integrating a “Social Sharing Rewards” program.